# PRO2-ProgrammingChallenge

**Nombre del Proyecto**: Práctica PRO2 Primavera 2020
+ Version: 1.0  
+ Language and Version: C++ 17  

  In evolutionary biology, anthropology, linguistics and many other scientific disciplines, one of the main problems addressed is the construction of phylogenetic trees, diagrams that schematically represent the evolutionary relationships between a set of N entities (in evolutionary biology we usually speak of species, although often not species but families or orders), as in the examples in figures 1 and 2. The phylogenetic tree is constructed on the basis of the similarities and differences in the physical or genetic characteristics of the N entities.  
  In a rooted phylogenetic tree each node with descendants represents the most recent common ancestor of its descendants, and it is usual that the length of the edges/branches of the tree is proportional to the time elapsed between the entities represented. The internal nodes are hypothetical entities, as they cannot be directly observed, only the N entities of the leaves of the tree are known to us.  
  The construction of the phylogenetic tree that best explains the observed data, optimising a certain criterion, is a computationally difficult problem, in the sense that the cost of the necessary calculations grows exponentially with N . In addition, many other problems complicate the obtaining of phylogenetic trees that accurately reflect evolutionary history: inaccurate entity data, hybridisations, convergent evolution, . . .  
  For this reason, numerous approximate methods have been developed that generate phylogenetic trees efficiently and that approximate the optimal tree very well in most
cases, but not always. In this practice our aim will be to build a program and the necessary modules to construct the phylogenetic tree for a set of N species using one of these approximate methods: the method known as WPGMA (weighted pair group with arithmetic mean).  

  The WPGMA algorithm builds a binary tree that reflects the hypothetical evolution of the N species in an iterative process in which clusters or groups of species are created: each subtree represents a cluster, given two clusters we can join them to form a larger one that brings together the species of both. The root node of each sub-tree represents the most recent common ancestor of all the species in the cluster. The construction of the tree is based on the principle that all distances between the root of a subtree and its leaves are identical, as the length/distance of each branch is proportional to the elapsed time and we will assume that all N species for which we want to construct the tree exist today.  
  
  The main program is located in the module program.cc. To store and treat the data described in the statement of the practice, we will use the module species to represent the species are their identifiers and genes, the module cjt_species to represent a set of species where we will store the distances between species i the set. For clusters we will use the module cluster i the module cjt_clusters to store a set of these.
